*FYI - this post may contain affiliate links, which means we earn a commission at no extra cost to you if you purchase from them. Also, as an Amazon Associate I earn from qualifying purchases. Check out our Privacy Policy and Disclosure. for more info. If there’s one country in Europe I’d single out for being an irritating overachiever, without a doubt, I’d have to say it’s Switzerland. This landlocked country in Central Europe may be small in size, but within its idyllic borders you’ll find everything from elegant cities and luxurious hotels to charming mountain towns surrounded by some of the most dramatic nature on the continent. Shimmering lakes? They have over 1500. Soaring mountain peaks? The country has over 10,000 (named) options. Add in their ridiculously good chocolate and astoundingly good public transport, and you have a dream getaway destination… so long as you can overlook the eye-watering prices. So, today, after many years frolicking through its photogenic wonders, I’m condensing all my Swiss knowledge into this concise Switzerland travel guide filled with all my top tips, itineraries, and recommendations. I hope you find it helpful! Save this Switzerland Travel Guide for Later! You’ll be very glad you did. Traveling to Switzerland Basics Currency : Swiss Franc (CHF) Language : Switzerland has four official languages: German, French, Italian and Romansch. Where you visit in Switzerland will impact which of these you hear most. That said, basic English is commonly spoken, especially in popular tourist areas, making it relatively easy for English-speaking visitors to navigate Switzerland. Getting Around : Switzerland boasts an extensive and efficient public transportation system, which includes various modes of transportation such as trains, buses, trams, and ferries. These make it easy to travel within the country between cities, towns, and scenic regions. My best tip is to use Omio to compare options easily. Renting a car is ideal for visiting smaller towns, more remote locations and numerous destinations in a short amount of time, but isn’t needed for the big cities. Switzerland Highlights (By the Season) Winter : Skiing and snowboarding, Christmas markets , snowshoeing, winter hiking Spring : Flower blooms, more hiking and other outdoor activities like cycling, paragliding, and kayaking Summer : Swimming, boating, and picnicking by the lakes, exploring mountain peaks plus music festivals, wine festivals, and traditional alpine celebrations such as the Swiss National Day on August 1st Fall : Incredible foliage displays, grape harvesting and wine festivals, traditional alpine cheese making in mountain villages like Gruyères and Appenzell My Favourite Places in Switzerland Not sure where to go in Switzerland? Here are some places I can definitely recommend! Lucerne Lucerne is hands-down one of the most stunning cities in Switzerland, and a firm favourite of mine. Located on the banks of the River Reuss where it flows into Lake Lucerne, droolworthy views of the lake (usually with swans) can be admired all around the city, which is just a postcard dream to explore. Some of the best things to do in Lucerne include walking across Chapel Bridge, the oldest covered wooden bridge in Europe, and taking a leisurely boat cruise or renting a paddleboat to explore the waters of the lake. Then you can wander through the charming cobblestone streets of Lucerne’s Old Town, lined with historic buildings, colourful frescoes, and boutique shops. Don’t miss landmarks like the Weinmarkt, Water Tower, and Jesuit Church as you go, with plenty of additional exploration opportunities nearby, from the former residence of composer Richard Wagner to the famous Lion Monument (Löwendenkmal), a poignant sculpture carved into a rock face that commemorates the Swiss Guards who were killed during the French Revolution. PS: If you’re looking for the legendary hospitality that Switzerland is famous for, you can splash out for a stay at the Grand Hotel National for more epic lake views and some Swiss luxury. Why visit Lucerne when you travel Switzerland: It’s a stunning lakeside city with dreamy views everywhere you go You can walk over the oldest covered wooden bridge in Europe (that looks like it belongs at Hogwarts) It’s a great base for exploring beautiful natural wonders, including Mt Pilatus and Mt Rigi The Lauterbrunnen Valley The Lauterbrunnen Valley is a breathtakingly beautiful alpine valley located in the Bernese Oberland region of Switzerland. Known for its dramatic cliffs, towering waterfalls, and picturesque villages, this paradise for outdoor enthusiasts is also a paradise for snap-happy visitors keen to see some of the most stunning landscapes that the country has to offer. The valley is renowned for its numerous impressive waterfalls, including the iconic Staubbach Falls, which cascades nearly 300 meters from a sheer cliff face… and if any further street cred is needed, Lord of the Rings fans should know that J. R. R. Tolkien based his descriptions of Rivendell on his own trip to Lauterbrunnen! There are lots of wonderful things to do in and around Lauterbrunnen , although seeking out the most stunning viewpoints in the Lauterbrunnen Valley is definitely up there. Beyond the village of Lauterbrunnen though (which you can learn more about in full Lauterbrunnen guide) , other exciting activities in the valley include taking the train up to Jungfraujoch, the highest railway station in Europe. Or hopping on the Schilthorn Cableway to the summit of the Schilthorn, famous for its panoramic revolving restaurant and James Bond movie location. Why visit the Lauterbrunnen Valley when you travel Switzerland: Incredible views and beautiful waterfalls Great jumping off point to ride up some famous mountain peaks Plenty of adrenaline-inducing activities to enjoy, from skiing to paragliding! Gelmersee Gelmersee, also known as Lake Gelmer, is a stunning turquoise-coloured reservoir located in the Bernese Oberland region of Switzerland. Nestled amidst the rugged mountain landscapes near the village of Guttannen, Gelmersee is known for its breathtaking beauty, crystal-clear waters, and scenic hiking trails. One of the highlights of visiting Gelmersee is riding the Gelmerbahn funicular , which is considered one of the steepest funicular railways in Europe. The funicular takes visitors on a thrilling ride from Handegg to Gelmersee, offering panoramic views of the surrounding mountains and valleys along the way. Gelmersee is also surrounded by several scenic hiking trails that offer amazing views of the lake and the surrounding mountains. Keep an eye out for marmots, ibexes, and chamois (a type of goat-antelope) as you explore. Why visit Gelmersee when you travel Switzerland: Stunning waters to enjoy as you relax or hike Ride on one of the steepest funicular railways in Europe Great spot for seeing European wildlife Thun And if you’re looking for a destination that’s slightly more offbeat but still outrageously beautiful, then head to Thun (a happy discovery on my last road trip around Switzerland). Thun is a charming town located in the Bernese Oberland region of Switzerland, nestled along the northern shores of Lake Thun. While small, the city offers a delightful blend of cultural attractions, outdoor activities, and scenic beauty, with a few surprises along the way like river surfers! One of the main attractions is Thun Castle; a medieval fortress that dates back to the 12th century and dominates the skyline of the Old Town, but the Altstadt is also full of other well-preserved medieval buildings, charming cafes, and boutique shops. Thun Panorama, one of the world’s largest circular paintings, can also be found here, but honestly I just found it so nice to walk around and gawk at all the beautiful squares, bridges, and buildings. Well worth a stop if you’re in the area! Why visit Thun when you travel Switzerland: Gorgeous architecture and views all around Explore Thun Castle and see the Thun Panorama Fun surprises like river surfers Nice base for outdoor activities nearby on the lake and otherwise Meiringen Elsewhere in the Bernese Oberland region of Switzerland is a charming and surprising alpine town called Meiringen that’s a must-visit for super fans of Sherlock Holmes… and super fans of meringues. Let me explain! Perhaps the most famous of things to do in Meiringen is visiting the Reichenbach Falls, a series of spectacular waterfalls cascading down a rocky gorge. The falls gained literary fame as the setting for the final confrontation between Sherlock Holmes and his arch-nemesis, Professor Moriarty, in Arthur Conan Doyle’s story “The Final Problem.” Today, nerds of this variety can hike to various viewpoints overlooking the falls for incredible panoramic views of the surrounding mountains and valleys, and even stop by the Sherlock Holmes Museum afterwards. But beyond that, Meiringen has unique bragging rights as the birthplace of the almighty meringue… and has plenty of stunning natural attractions nearby as well, including the idyllic Aare Gorge. Why visit Meiringen when you travel Switzerland: Marvel at Reichenbach Falls (and other Sherlock Holmes attractions) Feast on meringues in its birthplace Great base for exploring lots of stunning natural scenery Lausanne Nestled on the northern shores of Lake Geneva in the French-speaking region of Switzerland, Lausanne is a vibrant city known for its rich history, picturesque scenery, and dynamic cultural scene. Lausanne is also renowned as the Olympic Capital, serving as the headquarters of the International Olympic Committee (IOC) since 1915. Olympic fans visiting Lausanne can explore the Olympic Museum , which showcases the history of the Olympic Games through interactive exhibits, artifacts, and multimedia displays… with some SO well-done, I admit I cried? Tears aside, the Old Town area (Vieille Ville) is beautiful, with cobbled streets and picturesque squares to meander through. Lausanne also hosts a yearly Christmas market, but with a twist! Instead of the occasionally rather repetitive chalets and string lights, Lausanne Christmas market is very unique and modern, with cool installations all around the city to admire. Why visit Lausanne when you travel Switzerland: Stunning location on the shores of Lake Geneva Picturesque Old Town to admire Home of the International Olympic Committee and a fascinating Olympic Games Museum One of the most unique and modern Christmas markets in Switzerland! Rhine Falls And if you’re seeking spectacular waterfalls in Switzerland, then you can’t miss out on a visit to the Rhine Falls. Located near the town of Schaffhausen in northern Switzerland, this is the largest waterfall in Europe by volume and truly epic to witness. Renowned for their breathtaking beauty and powerful cascades, these falls stretch across the Rhine River, dropping over a series of rocky ledges with a height of 23 meters (75 feet) and a width of 150 meters (492 feet). One of the best ways to experience the Rhine Falls up close is by taking a boat tour , with several companies offering taking visitors right up to the base of the falls. There are also scenic viewing platforms and walking trails around the Rhine Falls for different panoramic views… and for those braver than I, you can even embark on zipline rides across the river! Why visit Rhine Falls when you travel Switzerland: Biggest waterfall in Europe by volume Boat tours right up to the cascades Hiking and even ziplining across the river for more stunning views Chur Located in the eastern part of Switzerland, Chur (pronounced Core) is the capital of the canton of Graubünden and one of the oldest cities in Switzerland. It’s known for its historic Old Town, characterized by narrow cobblestone streets, medieval buildings, and charming squares – but there are also some quite unique things to do in Chur ! For instance, Chur is the birthplace of H.R. Giger, an artist known for his “biomechanical” style who worked on the classic film Alien (and was part of the special effects team that won an Academy Award for the visual design). There’s now an alien-themed bar in Chur where you can have a drink surrounded by the creepy-cool biomechanical interior. There’s also quite a few nice natural sights nearby as well. From Chur, you can also take a ride on the Brambrüesch Cable Car, which whisks visitors from Chur up to the Brambrüesch Mountain Resort where panoramic views, scenic hikes, and mountain biking adventures await Why visit Chur when you travel Switzerland: Beautiful and historic city Some unique attractions like an H.R. Giger “Alien” themed bar Catch the Brambrüesch Cable Car to the Brambrüesch Mountain Resort Lugano And if you’re looking for a warmer Switzerland experience, I can definitely recommend heading to Lugano in the Italian-speaking canton of Ticino in southern Switzerland. This city is known for its Mediterranean ambiance and gorgeous lakeside setting, with plenty to see and enjoy. While the shimmering waters of Lake Lugano are the centerpiece of the city’s natural beauty, there are also two different mountains to head up for epic scenery – Monte Brè and Monte San Salvatore , both offering panoramic views of Lake Lugano and the surrounding Alps. Within the city proper though, there are of course the requisite beautiful cobblestone streets, historic buildings, and vibrant piazzas, along with the Renaissance Cathedral of Saint Lawrence. Another highlight? Swissminiatur, a charming open-air park that recreates Switzerland in miniature featuring over 120 meticulously crafted models of iconic Swiss landmarks, cities, and landscapes, including miniature trains, boats, and cable cars. Why visit Lugano when you travel Switzerland: More stunning lake and mountain views Lots of cultural attractions like the Swissminiatur open-air park Zermatt Zermatt is one of the world’s most iconic mountain resorts, primarily because of its breathtaking views of the Matterhorn, one of the most iconic mountains in the world (thanks to Toblerone). While you’ll probably most want to visit so you can also get that shot of the Matterhorn (guilty!), there are plenty of others things to see and do here besides just photography. Zermatt is a premier destination for winter sports, offering some of the best skiing and snowboarding in the Alps. Here, you can also ride the historic Gornergrat Railway , one of the highest cogwheel railways in Europe, to the summit of Gornergrat. Or just take a cable car to the Matterhorn Glacier Paradise , Europe’s highest cable car station located at an altitude of 3,883 meters (12,740 feet). Why visit Zermatt when you travel Switzerland: That famous shot of the Matterhorn! Lots of skiing and snowboarding opportunities Europe’s highest cable car station with a Glacier Palace ice cave (specific bragging right, but we’ll take it) Basel Basel is a vibrant and culturally rich city located in the northwest corner of Switzerland, where the borders of Switzerland, France, and Germany converge. In fact, one of the most famous things to do in Basel is to stand on the Dreiländereck, a monument in the middle of the River Rhine where you can stand in three countries at once! Since it’s located on the banks of the Rhine River, riding the ferries or going for a boat cruise is another must-do while in Basel, as is exploring the city’s charming old town, with its narrow cobblestone streets. Highlights include the Basel Minster, a stunning Gothic cathedral with panoramic views from its tower, and the Marktplatz, home to the colourful Basel Town Hall. The Basel Christmas Market is often hailed as one of the country’s largest and most beautiful, so it’s well worth timing your visit for the festive season if you enjoy magical markets. Why visit Basel when you travel Switzerland: Fantastic Christmas market Lovely attractions on both sides of the Rhine River You can stand in three countries at once! Zurich While it’s not the capital, Zurich is the largest city in Switzerland, packed with historic buildings, art galleries, museums, shopping opportunities and a gorgeous lakeside setting. I’ll admit, Zurich isn’t my personal favourite place to visit if you’re limited on time, just because it is (at the end of the day) just a city. BUT if you’re itching for a city break, especially one that includes (pricey) retail therapy, then Zurich is a lovely choice for a city break. You can shop till you drop along Zurich’s famous Bahnhofstrasse, one of the world’s most exclusive shopping streets or gallivant through one of the city’s many notable museums, including the Kunsthaus Zurich, which houses one of the largest art collections in Switzerland. And if you’re itching for some nature, Zurich is a nice base for that as well – with options like a scenic hike or train ride to the top of Uetliberg Mountain, Zurich’s local peak, for panoramic views of the city, Lake Zurich, and the Swiss Alps. Why visit Zurich when you travel Switzerland: Beautiful yet walkable city, perfect for an urban break Lots of museums, shops and impressive architecture Lake and mountains for outdoor activities as well Bucket List Experiences in Switzerland Switzerland is full of incredible bucket list experiences. Here are a few of my favourites: Enjoy some of the world’s most scenic train rides I personally adore travelling through Europe by train , but I have to say: the Swiss train system takes everything to the next level. Over the years, I’ve been lucky enough to experience several scenic Swiss train routes , and loved them so much I consider them a bucket list must for anybody travelling through the country. While there’s a near-endless amount of scenic routes, some famous made-for-tourist highlights include the Glacier Express, which travels between the ski resorts of Zermatt and St. Moritz, with stops in places like Chur and Andermatt along the way. (You can read my full review of travelling first class on the Glacier Express for more details). As well as the Bernina Express , which connects Chur and Tirano, with a myriad of stunning landscapes along the way. My personal favourite though? The Golden Pass Classic between Montreux to Zweisimmen, where the first class cars look like this: Go hiking Another bucket list must in Switzerland? Hiking! Truly, this country is a paradise for hiking enthusiasts, offering a vast network of well-maintained trails that wind through some of the most spectacular landscapes in the world, catering to all skill levels. Whether you’re looking for a leisurely stroll through scenic valleys, a challenging ascent to a mountain summit, or a multi-day trek along a long-distance trail, Switzerland has something for everyone. Of course, you can basically enjoy a great hike anywhere in the country you feel like walking but some of the best official hikes to experience in Switzerland include: The Haute Route : a classic alpine trek that traverses the Pennine Alps from Chamonix in France to Zermatt in Switzerland, offering views of Mont Blanc, the Matterhorn, and other iconic peaks along the way The Five Lakes Walk in the Jungfrau Region : which offers breathtaking views of the Eiger, Mönch, and Jungfrau peaks reflected in crystal-clear alpine lakes The Panorama Trail in the Bernese Oberland : which winds through lush meadows and past traditional Swiss chalets with panoramic views of the surrounding mountains Admire epic lakes Along with mountains, cheese and chocolate, one thing that Switzerland has a lot of is beautiful lakes! From crystal-clear mountain lakes nestled amidst the Alps to serene lakeside retreats surrounded by picturesque landscapes, Swiss lakes are beloved destinations for all sorts of travellers. Whether you’re an outdoor enthusiast, a nature lover, or just seeking tranquillity, there will be a lake (or multiple lakes) for you. You can hike around them, picnic beside them or have fun in and on them! Some of the best (and most famous) include: Lake Geneva (Lac Léman) : one of the largest and most iconic lakes in Europe Lake Lucerne (Vierwaldstättersee ): surrounded by dramatic mountain peaks, lush forests, and quaint lakeside towns Lake Zurich (Zürichsee) : a picturesque lake bordered by rolling hills, vineyards, and vibrant urban centres Lake Thun and Lake Brienz : two stunning lakes connected by the Aare River in the Bernese Oberland region Lake Lugano : situated in the southern part of Switzerland, near the border with Italy, Lake Lugano is known for its Mediterranean climate, palm-lined shores, and beautiful alpine scenery Skiing in the Swiss Alps Of course, for those with better balance than me, Switzerland would make an excellent destination for skiing and snowboarding. The Swiss Alps offer some of the most picturesque experiences for winter sports enthusiasts in the world, with a vast network of ski resorts and reliable snow conditions… along with high prices to match! Eye-gougingly high price tags aside, Switzerland boasts a wide range of world-class ski resorts catering to all levels of skiers and snowboarders, from beginners to experts. Popular resorts include Zermatt, Verbier, St. Moritz, Davos-Klosters, and the Jungfrau Region. And for clumsier folks like me, you can still (somewhat) partake in ski culture with an array of après-ski festivities at cozy mountain lodges, sun-drenched terraces, and lively bars. Stuff your face with Swiss cheese and chocolate! Switzerland is renowned worldwide for its high-quality cheese and chocolate, both of which are integral components of Swiss cuisine and cultural heritage. Plus, they’re delicious, so well worth seeking out to eat as much as possible during your visit! Switzerland produces a wide variety of cheeses, with some of the most famous including Emmental, Gruyère, Appenzeller, and Raclette. Luckily, Swiss cheese is a versatile ingredient used in a variety of dishes, including fondue, raclette, cheese platters, and sandwiches, so it’s really not difficult at all to enjoy it all throughout your trip. They take cheese so seriously in fact that you can even attend cheese festivals and events such as the Swiss Cheese Awards in Bern or the Fête du Vacherin Mont-d’Or in the Jura region. Just like cheese, Swiss chocolate is renowned for its exceptional quality and craftsmanship. All over the country, you can visit renowned chocolatiers and shops, with many familiar favourites like Lindt, Sprüngli, and Läderach offering flagship stores and cafes in major cities. Of course, you can also explore interactive chocolate museums such as the Lindt Home of Chocolate in Zurich or the Maison Cailler in Broc to learn all about the history and production of Swiss chocolate. My Recommended Switzerland Itineraries Switzerland is a fairly small country, but there is plenty to see and do! Here are a few of my favourite itinerary ideas, based on different interests: ‘Best of’ Itinerary: Basel, Zurich & Rhine Falls, Lucerne, Lauterbrunnen Valley, Zermatt, Montreux Alpine Adventure Itinerary : Lucerne, Interlaken Area, Lauterbrunnen Valley, Zermatt Swiss City Break: Basel, Zurich, Lucerne (OPTIONAL: Bern) Western Wonders Itinerary: Geneva, Lausanne, Montreux (OPTIONAL: Zermatt or Bern) Southern Sun Itinerary : Verzasca Valley, Ascona, Lugano Swissmas Blissmas : Basel, Zurich, Lucerne, Montreux, Lausanne, Geneva My Top Switzerland Travel Tips Transport: If you’re overwhelmed by transport options, Omio is a great resource for comparing trains, buses and flights in Switzerland at the same time You can also save money on transport within Switzerland with a Swiss Travel Pass If you’re travelling to multiple countries (i.e. Germany, France), a Eurail pass might help save you money Accommodation: Booking.com is a great place to search up hotels, and filtering by Free Cancellation allows you to book without paying upfront Airbnb can be a very affordable alternative for longer stays/bigger groups Attractions and Tickets: GetYourGuide is a great site for finding tours and attraction tickets City passes in cities like Geneva and Zurich can save you a LOT of money if you plan to visit many tourist attractions in a short time If you’re past the planning stage and heading to Switzerland soon, make sure you read this before you go: More Switzerland Travel Reads Are you feeling inspired to visit Switzerland after reading all that? Here are some more articles I’ve written about Switzerland that you might find interesting: