The Swiss are big on trains. I mean, Sheldon Cooper big. Let me explain what I mean. Switzerland only measures 220 by 348 kilometres, which results in a very manageable landmass of roughly 41.000 square kilometres. That’s only half the size of Lake Superior in the US/Canada. Or 2.5 times the size of Beijing. Yet, if you sum up all the railway tracks running across the country, you’ll end up with a total of over 5.200 kilometres . That’s a lot. That’s the distance from Vancouver to Halifax. Or from Ushuaia to São Paulo. Or from Cairns to Sydney. Return! You get the idea. The Swiss are big on trains. So it comes as no surprise that, in a place that is often associated with amazing scenery, a handful of these 5.200-odd kilometres are quite appealing to the eye. Regardless whether you plan a road trip or an epic train journey. In this post, I’ll introduce you to the five most scenic and best train rides in Switzerland . Mountain railways excluded. (You can find a selection of spectacular mountain railways in Switzerland in a separate post, if you're interested.) 1. The Golden Pass Line The Golden Pass Line connects the centre of Switzerland with the shores of Lake Geneva. This spectacular journey leads past eight lakes , passes through six different cantons (the Swiss version of states), crosses three mountain passes and connects two language regions with each other. And it offers about an estimated gazillion photo opportunities. 191 kilometres (119 miles) Interlaken and (depending on the connection) Zweisimmen Trains run eight times a day, all year round. If you travel in 1st or 2nd class , you don't necessarily need a reservation to use the Golden Pass trains. However, during busy times, it is recommended to get a seat reservation to make sure you get your spot. Especially between Interlaken and Montreux. If you wish to travel in the Prestige Class between Interlaken and Montreux, a reservation is required. You can book your seat reservation for the Golden Pass Line in just a few clicks on Swiss Activities. Getting off along the way: You can easily interrupt your journey between Lucerne and Montreux and explore what's inbetween. The best places to stop over are probably Brienz or Interlaken. If you don't have a reservation for the whole journey, you can get off along the way as often as you please. The Golden Pass line is made up of two separate trains. One goes from Lucerne to Interlaken and the other one from Interlaken to Montreux. Book your Golden Pass Package Golden Pass Tickets and Reservations one-way tickets for your selected segment Seat reservations (1st Class, 2nd Class, Prestige) 24 hour cancellation policy Buy your ticket or reservation in just a few clicks Golden Pass Tour 4 days / 3 nights (hotel included) Golden Pass seat reservations included 5% discount with the code "AFFLIS" Use the code "AFFLIS" for a 5% discount Discover more Golden Pass Packages Winter wonderland and magical trains Panoramic Round Trip 5% discount with the code "AFFLIS" Use the code "AFFLIS" for a 5% discount GOLDEN PASS LINE HIGHLIGHTS Lucerne Most people start their Golden Pass journey in Lucerne. This beautiful city by the shores of Lake Lucerne is mostly known for the Kapellbrücke – a wooden footbridge leading across the River Reuss – spectacular views over Lake Lucerne and Mount Pilatus as well as the famous Lion’s Monument and the Glacier Garden. There are lots of things to do in Lucerne if you're looking for something cool before starting your scenic train ride to Montreux. The famous Kapellbrücke in Lucerne View over Lake Lucerne and Mount Pilatus Lake Lungern and Brünig Pass On the way from Lucerne to Interlaken, you’ll pass by Lake Lungern. This picturesque lake lies in a valley and can best be seen if you grab a seat on the right side. Coming from Interlaken, the best Lake Lungern views are on the left. After passing the lake, the train starts climbing up to Brünig Pass, which sits at 1.008 metres (3.307 feet) above sea level. After the pass and on your way down to Interlaken, you’ll be presented with stunning views over Lake Brienz and into the Bernese Alps. On your journey from Brienz to Interlaken, you have one of my favourite Swiss lakes to your left: Lake Brienz. If you look closely, you can even see the famous Giessbach waterfalls coming down in 14 cascades. Lake Brienz with the Giessbach Hotel and Brienz in the background Lake Lungern Interlaken Interlaken is the starting point to many an adventure and most visitors to Switzerland pass through it at some point. You’re really spoiled for choice here when it comes to things to do in Interlaken . Activities include a very expensive cruise up Jungfrau (Top of Europe), a boat ride on Lake Brienz or Lake Thun, a trip to the villages of Lauterbrunnen and Grindelwald, an adrenaline-packed session of skydiving, paragliding, canyoning or just a good old hike in front of the famous Eiger, Mönch and Jungfrau mountain trio. You will be changing trains here in Interlaken East. Lauterbrunnen The Eiger, Mönch and Jungfrau trio in the Bernese Alps Lake Thun and Spiez Lake Thun has a habit to take people’s breath away. Gazing out the window on your way to Spiez, you might understand everyone’s affections for this lake. Grab a seat on the right side for better views. Built by the shores of Lake Thun, Spiez is a wonderful little town. An optional one-hour stopover gives you plenty of time to head down to the shores of Lake Thun, visit the castle, walk through the pretty town with its vineyards or even go for a quick dip in the lake. Lake Thun in Spiez Spiez Castle Bernese Oberland A big part of the Golden Pass Line takes you through the Bernese Oberland. This area is a dream for mountain-lovers and pretty much sums up what Switzerland is about. Lakes, mountains, lush meadows with grazing cows, glaciers, tons of hiking trails , wonderful landscapes and cute little villages. In winter, the area turns into a haven for the snow-seeking crowd. Gstaad, the counterpart to St. Moritz in the Bernese Alps, is particularly popular. Enjoy the view just gazing out the window... Golden Pass Panoramic Train Bernese Oberland Montreux Montreux marks the end, or the beginning, of the Golden Pass Line. This beautiful city by Lake Geneva is the gateway to many attractions in the area. Whether you‘re visiting the Château de Chillon , the city of Vevey, the UNESCO World Heritage site of Lavaux vineyards or just hanging out next to the Freddie Mercury statue in Montreux, there are plenty of things to do in Montreux . Throughout the year, several music, comedy and arts festivals take place. The Montreux Jazz Festival being the most popular one. The city of Montreux by Lake Geneva Chateau de Chillon 2. Glacier Express The Glacier Express - also known as the world’s slowest express train – is probably the best known scenic train ride in Switzerland. It connects the two highly popular mountain destinations of St. Moritz and Zermatt . What makes this journey so memorable are the fantastic views you get left, right and centre throughout the whole ride. The train takes you across 291 bridges, through 91 tunnels, three cantons and two language regions. 291 kilometres (181 miles) Trains run once daily during winter and four times daily during summer. Only two out of the four summer trains complete the whole journey between St. Moritz and Zermatt, though. The other start or finish in Chur or Brig. Find the current departure times here . A reservation on the Glacier Express is mandatory. Prices wary depending on the season. You can travel in 1st, 2nd or in the very exclusive Excellence Class. You can buy your seat reservation in a few clicks on Swiss Activities. It’s possible to travel between St. Moritz and Zermatt without paying a reservation fee. For this, you’ll need to downgrade from the fancy Glacier Express trains and use regular trains instead. Get on in St. Moritz and transfer in Reichenau-Tamins, Disentis/Mustér, Andermatt and Visp. You’d be surprised, but even though you’ll be changing trains all the time, it’ll only take you around 20 minutes longer to reach your destination. To put together your schedule, head to the SBB website . These regular trains travel the exact same route as the Glacier Express does. The only thing you’ll be missing out on are the panorama windows and the fancy lunch options or the luxurious seats. Other than that, it's practically the same. In addition to saving you the reservation fee, this option also l ets you travel more flexibly because trains run a lot more frequently. Getting off along the way : I don't recommend interrupting your Glacier Express journey as you need a reservation for this trip. However, if you really want to stop over, make sure you arrange your reservations accordingly. Or, book a multi-day package to take your time to explore the whole route. If you opt for the penny-pincher version, you can get off along the way as often and as long as you please. Book your Glacier Express Package Glacier Express Tickets and Reservations one-way ticket for your daytrip Seat reservations (1st Class, 2nd Class, Excellence) 24 hour cancellation policy Buy your ticket or reservation in just a few clicks Glacier Express Classic 3 days / 2 nights (hotel included) Glacier Express seat reservations included 5% discount with the code "AFFLIS" Use the code "AFFLIS" for a 5% discount Glacier Express Excellence Class 3 days / 2 nights (hotel included) Glacier Express Excellence Class seat reservation 6 course menu incl. wine 5% discount with the code "AFFLIS" Use the code "AFFLIS" for a 5% discount Discover more Glacier Express Packages Glacier Express Winter Dream Glacier Express Zermatt - Chur Glacier Express Brig - St. Moritz 5% discount with the code "AFFLIS" Use the code "AFFLIS" for a 5% discount GLACIER EXPRESS HIGHLIGHTS St. Moritz The mountain village of St. Moritz is a highly popular holiday destination all year round. Surrounded by towering mountains and in close proximity to Lake St. Moritz and Lake Silvaplana , the area offers something for everyone. Whether you’re into biking, hiking , stand up paddling, swimming, windsurfing, skiing, sledding, ice skating, snowshoeing or just enjoying the views, you’ll find your heart’s desire. Or, you can jump on the Glacier Express and travel to Zermatt... St. Moritz (Photo: Switzerland Tourism Markus Aebischer) Lake St. Moritz in summer Albula Line (UNESCO) Leaving St. Moritz, you travel along a UNESCO World Heritage Site. The stunning Albula Line between Preda and Bergün is going to make your head spin. Since the train loses lots of altitude in this segment, it spirals its way down across six viaducts and through three loop tunnels. If you pay attention, you’ll notice the train changing the side of the valley several times. Viaduct in Preda (Photo: Switzerland Tourism Renato Bagattini) The village of Bergün in winter Landwasser Viaduct The Landwasser Viaduct, which you will be passing shortly after Bergün, is nothing short of a masterpiece. This impressive construction is 142 metres (466 feet) long and 65 metres (213 feet) high. What makes it so unique is the fact that the viaduct leads straight into a tunnel. The friendly and informative voice on the train will inform you before you cross this viaduct. My recommendation is to just enjoy the ride and look out the window instead of trying to get the perfect picture. It's hard to take a good photo while you're on the viaduct so in my opinion, the experience outranks an attempt at a photo for which you miss the experience. But that's just me... Landwasser Viaduct (Photo: Switzerland Tourism Rob Lewis) Landwasser Viaduct (Photo: Switzerland Tourism Franziska Pfenniger) Chur Next stop where people can get on and off is Chur , the capital of the Canton of Grisons. Relatively small in size, it offers plenty of sights and comes with a wonderful old town. It’s also the starting point to many a trip in the vicinity, like to the crystal clear Lake Gauma or the dramatic Rhine Gorge . Chur is the capital city of the Canton of Grisons Rhine Gorge Also known as the „Swiss Grand Canyon“, the Rhine Gorge was formed during a massive landslide around 10.000 years ago. Carved out by the river over many centuries, the Rhine Gorge is now a popular destination for hikers, bikers and river-rafters. Coming from St. Moritz, you’ll get the best views of the canyon if you sit on the left. Swiss Grand Canyon Train cruising along the Rhine Oberalp Pass At 2.033 metres (6.670 feet) above sea level, the Oberalp Pass connects Disentis/Mustér in the Canton of Grisons with Andermatt in the Canton of Uri. This pass is the highest point of the Glacier Express. In Disentis, the train will make a brief stop as a different train crew will be taking over. This gives you some time to gaze out the window and look at the pretty houses of Disentis before you continue uphill. Oberalp Pass (Photo: Switzerland Tourism Robert Bösch) Glacier Express train at Oberalp Pass Andermatt After passing the Oberalp Pass, you'll be heading down serpentine lines towards Andermatt, another popular holiday area during summer and winter. Depending on the time of day you travel, you'll probably get your lunch somewhere around here. View from the Glacier Express train during winter The interior of a 1st Class carriage Zermatt Following a brief stop in Andermatt, you continue onward through the Canton of Valais to Brig and all the way up to Zermatt, where the journey ends. Or begins, depending on which way you decide to travel. The village of Zermatt sits right in front of the Matterhorn , Switzerland’s most famous mountain. The hiking, biking and photo opportunities in this area are seemingly endless. Riding up the Gornergrat with its mountain and glacier views will blow your socks off. And only 15 minutes from Zermatt lies Randa, the starting point to hiking across the world’s longest pedestrian suspension bridge . For more insider tips about what to do in Zermatt, read the interview I did with my local friend Gabriela or check out this page for more inspiration about things to do in Zermatt . Zermatt with the Matterhorn in the background The mighty Matterhorn 3. Bernina Express They say the most spectacular way to cross the Alps is on board the Bernina Express . And "they" might just be right. This train takes you from either Chur or from St. Moritz across the Alps and all the way into sunny Italy. Between Chur and St. Moritz, the Bernina Express covers the exact same route as the Glacier Express. After St. Moritz, it starts climbing up to glistening glaciers before heading down to the palms of Italy. It passes through 55 tunnels and crosses 196 bridges along the way. The train ends in the Italian city of Tirano. From there, the Bernina Express Bus takes passengers through the famous Valtellina wine region past Lake Como and back into Switzerland. 4 hours 13 minutes (train from Chur to Tirano) or 2 hours 35 minutes (train from St. Moritz to Tirano) and 3 hours 10 minutes (bus from Tirano to Lugano) 156 kilometres (97 miles) on the train, 90 kilometres ( 56 miles) on the bus The Bernina Express runs from May through November between St. Moritz and Tirano. From Chur to Tirano, it runs all year round. Unfortunately, their schedule is too complicated to put into words. Please check their current timetable to put together your itinerary. Travelling on the Bernina Express requires a seat reservation. The seat reservation costs between 20 CHF and 26 CHF, depending on the season you travel in. You can buy your seat reservation for the Bernina Express in just a few clicks on Swiss Activities. The same principle that works for the Glacier Express applies to the Bernina Express. To avoid paying the reservation fee , use regular trains. Get on in Chur or St. Moritz and travel to Tirano. This way, you can also get off along the way as much as you like because trains run every hour. Getting off along the way : I don't recommend interrupting your Bernina Express journey as you need a reservation for this trip. Especially if the train only runs once a day, like it does during winter. If you really want to stop over, I recommend not travelling on the Bernina Express train but using the regular trains that run frequently between Chur, St. Moritz and Tirano. Book your Bernina Express Package Bernina Express Tickets and Reservations one-way or return ticket for your daytrip Seat reservations (1st Class, 2nd Class) 24 hour cancellation policy Buy your ticket or reservation in just a few clicks Bernina Express Classic (St. Moritz - Lugano) 3 days / 2 nights (hotel included) Bernina Express train and bus seat reservations included 5% discount with the code "AFFLIS" Use the code "AFFLIS" for a 5% discount Discover more Bernina Express Packages Bernina Express train packages Combination Glacier and Bernina Express 5% discount with the code "AFFLIS" Use the code "AFFLIS" for a 5% discount BERNINA EXPRESS HIGHLIGHTS Chur, Albula & St. Moritz Between Chur and St. Moritz, the Bernina Express covers the exact same route as the Glacier Express. Please see above for a more detailed description of Chur, the Rhine Gorge, the Albula Line, the Landwasser Viaduct and St. Moritz. Please note that the Bernina Express comes in two options. One starts in Chur, while the other one starts in St. Moritz. If you wish to travel this leg along the Albula Line, make sure you plan a trip along the Bernina Express starting in Chur. Ospizio Bernina After St. Moritz, the Bernina Express takes a different route than the Glacier Express. At 2.535 metres (8.317 feet) above sea level, Ospizio Bernina is the highest point of the Bernina Line. It’s around here that you cross the language border between the Romansh-speaking Engadine and the Italian-speaking Poschiavo Valley. The Bernina Express at Ospizio Bernina Bernina Express train Valposchiavo The Poschiavo Valley in the southern Alps is a fantastic place to go hiking or enjoy a walk along the lake. It’s where the Bernina Express crosses the Swiss-Italian border and takes you to Tirano, where you transfer to the Bernina Express Bus to Lugano. But before that happens, you pass one more highlight... Lago Bianco on the way to Valposchiavo Lago di Poschiavo Brusio Circular Viaduct The circular viaduct in Brusio is another spectacular construction on the Bernina Line. In order to overcome the altitude in the narrow Poschiavo Valley, the train has to take a 360-degree turn. Shortly after crossing this piece of art, you will cross the border and reach Tirano in Italy. Here, you can either head back to St. Moritz on the next train after spending some time in the city or continue on to Lugano by Bernina Express Bus. Viaduct in Brusio (Photo: Switzerland Tourism André Meier) The Bernina Express spiralling its way down to Valposchiavo in Brusio Valtellina and Lake Como On the way from Tirano to Lugano, you’ll ride through the stunning wine region of Valtellina. Before crossing the border back into Switzerland, you’ll be driving past Lake Como, the place where George Clooney and many other celebrities got married. Menaggio by Lake Como Berbenno in the Valtellina Valley Lugano The start or ending point of the Bernina Express is Lugano . It's the biggest city in the Canton of Ticino and the third biggest financial centre in Switzerland - right after Zurich and Geneva. Its Mediterranean charm, the flowery parks and the stunning views from one of the many surrounding mountains make this city worth paying a visit. The nearby outdoor museum Swissminiatur in the village of Mendrisio is a replica of Switzerland in small. I used to love going there as a kid… I guess I owe most of my Swiss geography knowledge to that place. Lake Lugano The old town of Lugano 4. Voralpen Express The Voralpen Express, which literally translates to „pre-Alpine Express“, commutes between St. Gallen and Lucerne. In comparison to the other train rides in this post, the Voralpen Express is the least touristy one. It doesn’t come with fancy panorama windows and there’s no friendly voice pointing out what viaduct you just crossed. But that doesn’t make it any less worth riding. 125 kilometres (78 miles) The Voralpen Express leaves St. Gallen and Lucerne every hour, all year round. You don't need a reservation for the Voralpen Express. Getting off along the way: Since the Voralpen Express is not a panoramic tourist train like the other ones and you therefore don't need a reservation, you can get off along the way as often and as long as you want. The place I'd recommend checking out for a while is Rapperswil. Apart from St. Gallen and Lucerne, of course. Book your Voralpen Express Package Voralpen Express Ticket one-way ticket for your daytrip get on and off as you please 24 hour cancellation policy Buy your ticket or reservation in just a few clicks Voralpen Express and Centovalli Train 4 days / 3 nights (hotel included) Itinerary: St. Gallen - Lucerne - Locarno - Domodossola - Montreux 5% discount with the code "AFFLIS" Use the code "AFFLIS" for a 5% discount Discover more Voralpen Express Packages Grand Train Tour of Switzerland - The Original Grand Train Tour of Switzerland - Stunning Waters 5% discount with the code "AFFLIS" Use the code "AFFLIS" for a 5% discount VORALPEN EXPRESS HIGHLIGHTS St. Gallen St. Gallen is where the Voralpen Express starts or ends. This city, which I call my home, has a lot to offer. Places like the UNESCO listed Abbey District, the recreational area of Drei Weieren and the free wildlife park of Peter & Paul make it easy to spend a few hours in this city. Head over to a more detailed guide of things to do in St. Gallen . The cathedral in St. Gallen is probably the most photographed building in the city. The recreational are of Drei Weiern Appenzell & Toggenburg After leaving St. Gallen, the Voralpen Express meanders its way through the picturesque areas of Appenzell and Toggenburg. The Toggenburg is nestled between two towering mountain ranges - the Alpstein and the Churfirsten. This part of Switzerland is incredibly pretty and might make you feel like you’ve stepped into a fairy tale. At least that’s how my Australian friend described it when I took her on the Voralpen Express. You’ll pass by green, rolling hills and traditional farmers’ houses as the train makes its way through the Appenzell and Toggenburg area towards Lake Zurich. St. Gallen with the Alpstein in the background (Photo: Switzerland Tourism Christof Sonderegger) Toggenburg with the Churfirsten (Photo: Switzerland Tourism André Meier) Rapperswil Once you've passed through the second tunnel on this journey, you'll soon arrive in Rapperswil. This little town by Lake Zurich is one of my favourite places in Switzerland. I lived here for three years while I was studying urban planning with Gabriela , Andrea , Tobi and Yannic . If you have enough time, I recommend getting off the train for an hour and exploring the beautiful „City of Roses". The impressive Rapperswil Castle, the charming promenade, Switzerland’s longest wooden bridge leading halfway across Lake Zurich and plenty of great spots with great views will make it worth your while. The beautiful town of Rapperswil by Lake Zurich Travelling between St. Gallen and Lucerne Rothenthurmer Moor Once the Voralpen Express is done climbing the hills behind Lake Zurich, it soon passes through the area of the Rothenthurmer Moor. This swampy landscape stretches across 10 kilometres (6 miles) between Biberbrugg and Rothenthurm and is the first moor to be protected in Switzerland. Walking the moorland trail between Biberbrugg and Rothenthurm takes just over two hours and is very easy to complete. Another opportunity to break up the Voralpen Express journey… Lakes Zurich, Zug and Lucerne Between St. Gallen and Lucerne , the Voralpen Express passes by three Swiss lakes : Lake Zurich, Lake Zug and Lake Lucerne. Enjoy the view! On the way from Arth Goldau to Immensee Lake Zug Lucerne Lucerne is either the starting or finishing point for people travelling the Voralpen Express. This vibrant city by the shores of Lake Lucerne is mostly known for the Kapellbrücke – a wooden footbridge leading across the River Reuss – spectacular views over Lake Lucerne and Mount Pilatus, the Swiss Museum of Transport as well as the Lion’s Monument and the Glacier Garden. You'll definitely find plenty of things to do around here before or after your Voralpen Express journey. The Lion Monument of Lucerne, Switzerland The famous Kapellbrücke in Lucerne 5. Gotthard Panorama Express If you follow the motto „the journey is the reward“, you’re going to love travelling the historic Gotthard Line from Lucerne to Lugano. For the first leg of your trip, you travel across Lake Lucerne from Lucerne to Flüelen on board a steamboat. In Flüelen, the Gotthard Panorama Express train takes you through the historic Gotthard route all the way down to the sunny south on Switzerland. Before the world’s longest tunnel opened in 2016, travelling this route through the Gotthard massif was the normal way to get to the Canton of Ticino by train. Today, the 57 kilometres (35 miles) long Gotthard Basistunnel saves commuters lots of time by bolting through the Alps in less than 20 minutes. Leaving the historic and scenic route to people who enjoy good views and slower journeys. 2 hours 43 minutes (boat from Lucerne to Flüelen), 2 hours 28 minutes (train from Flüelen to Lugano) 38 kilometres (24 miles) on the steamboat, 183 kilometres (114 miles) on the train. From Tuesday through Sunday, the Gotthard Panorama Express leaves once a day. Their season starts in April and ends in October. Check their current schedule here as the dates change every year. The Swiss Travel Pass ( Flex ) and the SBB Saver Day Pass are fully accepted on the Gotthard Panorama Express. With a Eurail and Interrail Pass, you get 50% off the boat ride from Lucerne to Flüelen. The train ride from Flüelen to Lugano is included. Please note that you will need a 1st class ticket for this journey. So if your travel pass is in 2nd class, you will need a so-called Class Upgrade , which you can book directly through Swiss Activities. You need a seat reservation for the train part of this trip. You can board the ship without a reservation. The reservation fee for the panoramic train costs 24 CHF. Seat reservations will become available in March 2025. As soon as they do, I will post the link for you here. You can travel the Gotthard Panorama Line without making a reservation by, you might have guessed it, using regular trains. Even though the historical Gotthard line is no longer the primary way to connect the Ticino with the rest of Switzerland, it’s still in use. Trains run hourly between Erstfeld and Bellinzona all year round. To put together your personal itinerary, consult the SBB timetable and enter the journey from Lucerne to Flüelen and Lugano. Getting off along the way : I don't recommend interrupting your Gotthard Panorama Express journey as you need a reservation for this trip and you can only complete it in one go. However, if you really want to stop over, make sure you arrange your reservations accordingly. There's an option to book this trip with an overnight stay. If you opt for the penny-pincher version, you can get off along the way as often and as long as you please. Book your Gotthard Panorama Express Package Gotthard Panorama Express Tickets and Reservations one-way ticket for your daytrip Seat reservations for the panoramic train 24 hour cancellation policy Buy your ticket or reservation in just a few clicks Gotthard Panorama Express Classic 3 days / 2 nights (hotel included) Gotthard Panorama Express Train seat reservations included 5% discount with the code "AFFLIS" Use the code "AFFLIS" for a 5% discount Discover more Gotthard Panorama Express Packages Scenic Rail Adventure Combine four top scenic train rides 5% discount with the code "AFFLIS" Use the code "AFFLIS" for a 5% discount GOTTHARD PANORAMA EXPRESS HIGHLIGHTS Lucerne Lucerne is either the starting or finishing point of people travelling the Gotthart Panorama Express. This beautiful city by the shores of Lake Lucerne is mostly known for the Chapel Bridge – a wooden footbridge built in 1356 – spectacular views over Lake Lucerne and Mount Pilatus as well as the Lion’s Monument and the Glacier Garden. Here's some inspiration for things to do in Lucerne if you have time before your panoramic journey. The Chapel Bridge is iconic to Lucerne. View over Lake Lucerne and Mount Pilatus Lake Lucerne If you start in Lucerne, the first leg of the journey will be spent on Lake Lucerne. Even though you're on the boat for a few hours, you most likely won't get bored. The views are stunning and there's lots to see around here. If you happen to travel on a sunny summer day, chances are you won't get tired of the deep blue colour of the lake, either. 😉 Cruise across Lake Lucerne on a steam boat. I can almost promise you won't get bored of the views. On the ride across to Flüelen, you’ll pass by several places of importance in Swiss history. For one, you’ll see the Rütliwiese, Switzerland's alleged founding place. You'll also catch a glimpse of places like the Schiller Stone and the Tell's Chapel. According to legend, our national hero, William Tell, escaped the fangs of his enemy at Tellsplatte by jumping off his boat. If you're interested, you can read more about William Tell and the saga around his existence in this article . The Schiller stone The Tell's Chapel on the way to Flüelen Baroque church of Wassen Once you arrive in Flüelen, the Gotthard Panoramic train will be waiting for you. On you get and off you go. Before passing through the tunnel, you will ride by a very special building. The "Chileli vo Wasse", a little church that's iconic to the Gotthard line. This little church in the village of Wassen, commonly known as „Chileli vo Wasse“, sits on a hill and can be seen from three different angles on the way up to the former Gotthard tunnel. Since the train passes two turning loops in this area, it keeps riding past the Chileli from different sides, which is what makes this spot so well-known. There’s even a catchy song about the Chileli vo Wasse… That’s how popular it is. On board the Gotthard Panorama Express (Photo: Swiss Travel System) You'll pass by the Chileli vo Wasse three times on your way to the Gotthard Tunnel Bellinzona After getting out of the Gotthard tunnel, it won't be long before you've reached Bellinzona. This town is the capital of the Ticino. It’s mainly famous for its three impressive castles Montebello, Castelgrande and Sasso Corbaro, which are part of the Swiss UNESCO World Heritage sites. They were built in the 15th century and make for an impressive, knight-like excursion. If you like, you can come back here from Lugano once you've completed your panoramic journey. It's only a short train ride from Lugano away. Bellinzona is famous for its castles and the impressive stone houses. One of the three castles in Bellinzona Lugano Lugano is the biggest city in the Canton of Ticino and the third biggest financial centre in Switzerland - right after Zurich and Geneva. Its Mediterranean charm, the flowery parks and the stunning views from one of the many surrounding mountains make this city worth paying a visit. Lake Lugano The old town of Lugano And here you have it. Five amazingly scenic train rides in Switzerland summed up. Of course, there are plenty more great rides you can enjoy in this versatile country. But these are the most famous ones. If you're interested in more great views, check out my article about spectacular mountain railways in Switzerland . I'd love to hear from you in the comments below if you've done one of these five train rides and how you enjoyed them... 😀 Disclosure: Some of the links in this post may be affiliate links, which means I may earn a small commission if you make a purchase — at no extra cost to you. Find out what this means here .