Jungfraujoch is one of those places… One that crowns the bucket list of most people coming to Switzerland. One that causes your jaw to hit the floor once you're presented with the astonishing panorama. One that confirms that Switzerland has the potential to make your wallet bleed out . And one that, despite the high costs, is worth every penny to experience. Jungfraujoch is the highest railway station in Europe. Hence the name At Christmas of 2016, when I started this blog, my focus was to write about budget-friendly places in Switzerland, I swore to myself that Jungfraujoch wouldn't make that list. Ever. Because Jungfraujoch may be a lot of things. But it certainly isn't budget-friendly. Almost four years later, at the height of the Covid-19 pandemic, I decided to break the silence. Since borders were closed, tourism had come to an abrupt standstill and there wasn't all that much to do, I headed up to Jungfraujoch. And was blown away. Which caused me to rethink my vow from back in 2016 and reach a new conclusion. Expensive as it is, Jungfraujoch has earned its rightful spot on every bucket list and on every Swiss road trip . And it was about time I stopped excluding this wonderful place from my blog. So let’s take a look at this special part of the world and try to s queeze it into a budget traveller’s bounds of possibility. Are you ready to rise to the Top of Europe ? 1. What is Jungfraujoch? Jungfraujoch, also known as the Top of Europe, is Europe’s highest railway station and was built for one purpose only. To attract tourists. In the late 19th century, Adolf Guyer-Zeller had the bright idea to build a cogwheel railway from Kleine Scheidegg through two mountains – Eiger and Mönch – all the way to Jungfraujoch. Which, if you think of it, is slightly insane. The terrain up there is anything but hospitable and blasting your way through two mountains to end up at 3.454 metres (11.300 feet) above sea level is by no means an easy task. Considering it was the 1890s. The Jungfraubahn starts at Kleine Scheidegg and has some seriously steep terrain to overcome (Photo: Jungfrau Railways) Not surprisingly, the undertaking took its toll and 30 people lost their lives during construction. Finally, in 1912, this piece of engineering art was completed. Since then, people from around the globe have been visiting Europe’s highest railway station to enjoy the views, take in the fresh mountain air and play around in the snow. 2. Where is Jungfraujoch? Dominantly positioned in the Bernese Alps, where the Cantons of Bern and Valais meet, is the most famous Swiss mountain trio: Eiger, Mönch and Jungfrau . Jungfraujoch is nestled between the two peaks of Mönch and Jungfrau. Jungfraujoch lies between the peaks of Mönch and Jungfrau. 3. How do I get to Jungfraujoch? Reaching the Top of Europe is a bit of a mission, to say the least. First up, you need to make your way to Interlaken . That in itself isn’t too hard as you’ve got frequent trains coming in from Bern and Basel as well as the Golden Pass Line from Lucerne. And with no more than one or two transfers , you can reach Interlaken from every major Swiss city within a reasonable amount of time. It’s in Interlaken where things start getting interesting. The saying “the journey is the destination” is alarmingly accurate in our case here. Here's an overview of all the trains and gondolas that can be involved in getting you up there. Overview on how you can reach Jungfraujoch Now, let's dive into the different options you have to reach Jungfraujoch. But before we do, please note one small detail that will save you quite some stress during your journey. Make sure you get on the right part of the train in Interlaken as it splits up in Zweilütschinen. Half the train goes to Lauterbrunnen, while the other half goes to Grindelwald. If you read the sign on the train before getting on, you'll be fine. And if you find yourself on the wrong part of the train, get off in Zweilütschinen and run to the other part. You probably won't be the only one doing so...😉 Option 1: Interlaken - Lauterbrunnen - Wengen - Kleine Scheidegg - Jungfraujoch Travel to Jungfraujoch through Lauterbrunnen, Wengen and Kleine Scheidegg With this option, you hop on the train from Interlaken to Lauterbrunnen, where you transfer to a cogwheel railway to Kleine Scheidegg. Between Lauterbrunnen and Kleine Scheidegg, you’ll pass through Wengen, where the famous Lauberhorn Ski World Cup takes place every January. If you’ve ever wanted to inspect the slopes where the pros race down at break-neck speed, this is your chance. At Kleine Scheidegg, the Jungfraubahn awaits you for your last leg up to Jungfraujoch. All in all, this one-way trip takes roughly two hours. Option 1: Travel by cogwheel railway through Lauterbrunnen... and Wengen with the Wengneralpbahn... ...through Kleine Scheidegg to Jungfraujoch. Option 2: Interlaken - Grindelwald - Kleine Scheidegg - Jungfraujoch Travel to Jungfraujoch through Grindelwald and Kleine Scheidegg With this option, you catch the train from Interlaken to Grindelwald, where you transfer to a cogwheel railway to Kleine Scheidegg. This option rewards you with spectacular views of the impressive yet murderous Eigernordwand - the north face of the Eiger Mountain. Again, at Kleine Scheidegg, the Jungfraubahn awaits you for your final climb. This option, like the first one, takes about two hours. Option 2: Travel through Grindelwald up to Kleine Scheidegg. The Jungfraubahn starts at Kleine Scheidegg and has some seriously steep terrain to overcome. Option 3: Interlaken - Grindelwald Terminal - Gondola to Eigergletscher - Jungfraujoch Travel to Jungfraujoch through Grindelwald Terminal and Eiger Glacier This third option is the fastest one. And also one you've only been able to take for a few years. In December 2020, the Eiger Express gondolas were put into operation. These big, modern and panoramic gondolas take you from Grindelwald Terminal up to Eiger Glacier. So like with the other options, you get on the train in Interlaken . Travel to Grindelwald Terminal (one stop before Grindelwald station) and transfer to the Eiger Express. At Eiger Glacier, you hop on the Jungfrau Railway, which then takes you up to the Top of Europe. With this option, you save quite a bit of time as it's 47 minutes faster in comparison to the other two. Option 3: Travel through Grindelwald Terminal... with the Eiger Express (Photo: Jungfrau Railways)... and the station Eigergletscher... ... to the Top of Europe 4. What can you expect at Jungfraujoch? Phew, where to start… I will try to keep this section short and let the images do the talking instead. But in a nutshell, what awaits you at Jungfraujoch is the following: spectacular views of towering mountains and glistening glaciers a five-minute photo-stop at Eismeer station right before Jungfraujoch insanely steep and slow train rides to Europe’s highest railway station very thin air that will have your heart pounding in your throat plenty of snow to play around in maybe a little altitude-induced dizziness several souvenir shops to grab a Swiss Army knife or maybe even a Swiss watch an ice palace and lots of signs describing the history of Jungfraujoch more photo opportunities than you thought possible and, unless you travel during a global pandemic, probably quite a crowd that had the same idea as you in getting up here... Have fun flipping through the gallery for some impressions of what you can expect.😊 Expect to see some amazing views up at Jungfraujoch (Photo: Jungfrau Railways) See the glacier at Eismeer station ... and see for yourself why it's called Selfie opportunities are abundant up there You can go for a short hike through the snow... all the way... ... to Mönchsjochhütte. It's definitely worth checking out. You can visit the Ice Palace inside Jungfraujoch... ... and go on a slippery walk (Photo: Jungfrau Railways) It also comes with some pretty cool ice sculptures. You can fool around in the snow all year round. Or get some yummy Lindt chocolates. You can visit the multimedia museum... ... and see how they built this crazy railway line. 5. How much time should I factor in for my visit at Jungfraujoch? That depends on what your plans at the Top of Europe are. If you’re happy to just head up, do the tour through the ice palace, the souvenir shops and the viewing platform, you won’t need more than 1.5 - 2 hours . Which ends up being a half-day trip from Interlaken with the journey up and down. But if you’re up for a walk during summer, like for instance to Mönchjochs hut , add an extra 2-3 hours . Also, if you’re keen on ziplining, trying out some winter sports or just playing around in the snow, factor in some extra time to visit the Jungfraujoch Snow and Fun Park . To spend some quality time in the snow, make sure you factor in enough time at Jungfraujoch. 6. How much does it cost to visit Jungfraujoch? This is where it gets tricky. As you can see in this file , there are two pages worth of ticket options. Which is one too many for me to simply tell you how much your trip will cost. The prices also change seasonally. Your options are plentiful and depending on where you start and end, your price will be different. Also, you're entitled to a discount if you rock up with an Interrail, Eurail, Swiss Travel Pass, Swiss Half Fare Card or Jungfrau Travel Pass . (We'll get to those in a minute.) To give you a rough idea of what to expect, here’s a point of reference. If you don’t have any kind of travel pass, expect to pay up to 240 CHF for a return trip from Interlaken to Jungfraujoch. Depending on the season. A travel pass, which I will talk about in just a second, can reduce those costs by 33% to 50%. ( Click here if you want to skip ahead to the discounts...😉) 7. Where can I buy my Jungfraujoch ticket? I recommend buying your ticket online as it's super convenient. If you book it through Swiss Activities using the link below, you'll automatically get your seat reservation, which is highly recommended. Especially during peak times. Altenatively, if you prefer the offline experience, you can head to any train station that comes with a ticket counter or visit the Jungfraubahnen station in Interlaken Ost to grab your ticket. 8. How frequently do trains to Jungfraujoch depart? Like the ticket prices, the timetable changes seasonally. As a general rule of thumb, you’ve got two hourly connections taking you from Interlaken, Grindelwald or Lauterbrunnen to Jungfraujoch. To plan your trip in detail, either ask at the Jungfraubahnen station in Interlaken Ost to give you the current timetable, check out this map or look for your connection in the online timetable . 9. Are there any ways to save money? Now we’re getting down to the nitty-gritty… Most things in life leave room for optimisation if you take a closer look. In our case, I see three ways to reduce your expenses on your trip to the Top of Europe. One of them – you might have guessed it – is to pay for it with sweat and tears. Option 1: Hike parts of the way While you can’t simply walk to Jungfraujoch, it is possible to skip the train to Kleine Scheidegg and hike parts of the way. You can either take the train to Lauterbrunnen, hike to Wengen and onward to Kleine Scheidegg , or start in Grindelwald and hike to Kleine Scheidegg from the other side. Those hikes take around four to five hours (one way) and might be an excellent opportunity to explore the best the Jungfrau region has to offer. To plan your hike or find other options - as there are plenty in the area - refer to this hiking map . Having said that, I only recommend the sweat-and-tears-option if you’re visiting during summer, are physically fit and have been on a hike or two in Switzerland before. Also, hiking both ways might be a bit much, unless you set off very early in the morning and don’t mind getting back late. Please come prepared and read my post about hiking in Switzerland in advance. Bon voyage. Hike parts of the way to save money on your ticket to Jungfraujoch. Option 2: Get a discount Option two is to buy a travel pass of some sort as they entitle you to all kinds of discounts. Having a travel pass generally makes sense if you mostly travel through Switzerland by public transport . My personal recommendation, if you aren't planning on buying a Swiss Travel Pass for your trip to Switzerland anyway, is to buy a Swiss Half Fare Card. It costs 120 CHF for one month and the discount you get to visit Jungfraujoch will pay for this card. It's what I recommended my cousin from New Zealand to do when he came to Switzerland for a month back in 2023 and he said he never regretted taking my advice. If you're wondering whether or not a Swiss Travel Pass makes sense for your trip, I've put together a separate post that will help you make a decision. Option 3: Rise early There's something called the Good Morning Ticket to Jungfraujoch. If you leave before 7 in the morning, you get a discount on your journey. You can find out more about this rise and shine ticket on the Jungfrau Website . 10. What are my cheaper alternatives to Jungfraujoch? You might be wondering if there are any equally impressive destinations with a lower price tag. While I believe there’s no place quite like Jungfraujoch , I do know a few spots with the potential to knock your socks off in a similar way. Alternative 1: Aletsch Arena Aletsch glacier, the beauty that lies in front of you when you visit the Top of Europe, is the largest and longest glacier of the Alps . It’s over 22 kilometres (14 miles) long and luckily, there’s more than one angle to marvel at it from. To access a cheaper spot, you'll need to travel to its other side in the Canton of Valais. During summer, there are countless hiking trails awaiting you. The best way to prepare yourself for your endeavours is by visiting the World Nature Forum near Brig main station. They know everything about this UNESCO World Heritage site and are happy to share their suggestions with you. If you happen to have any spare time, I highly recommend visiting their museum to learn more about the Aletsch area. My favourite hike is the one starting at Riederalp, leading past Riederfurka and through the Aletsch forest , after which you get a spectacular view of the Aletsch glacier. One of the many hikes leads through the Aletsch forest... ... to this viewing point where you can see the Aletsch glacier. While the Interrail / Eurail pass isn't valid on the gondola from Mörel to Riederalp, the Swiss Travel Pass gets you a 50% discount. But even paying full price won’t break your budget because a return trip is only 20 CHF. Which is way better than 210 CHF. Alternative 2: Gornergrat If you’re looking for high mountain peaks, thin air, steep cogwheel railway rides and glacier views , Gornergrat in Zermatt is another noteworthy alternative to the Top of Europe. From Zermatt, the Gornergrat railway takes you up to 3.135 metres (10.280 feet) above sea level, where you’re greeted with impressive views over the Gorner glacier and, unless it's veiled in clouds, the Matterhorn. The area is fantastic for hiking and you can cut back on your expenses by walking parts of the way. Just keep in mind that the terrain is steep, the air thin and you’ll need to come prepared. Winter wonderland at Gornergrat Copyright Photo: Gornergrat Bahn Regardless of whether you do it all by rail or hike parts of the way, one place you shouldn’t miss is Lake Riffelsee. This stunning mountain lake is very close to Rotenboden station, the one right before Gornergrat. You can either stop over, walk to the lake and continue your journey on the next train. Or you can get off at Rotenboden, enjoy some time by the lake and hike the rest of the way to Gornergrat. Up to you and your budget, your lungs’ capacity and your leg power. While riding the Gornergratbahn isn’t cheap, it’s cheaper than the Jungfrau Railway. Full-fare return tickets range between 80 CHF and 126 CHF, depending on their travel pass situation and the season. Their prices change seasonally alongside with the timetable . While Interrail and Eurail pass holders aren’t entitled to a discount, your Swiss Travel Pass and Swiss Half Fare Card get you up for half the price. By the way, my friend Gabriela shares her insider tips of Zermatt in this interview on my blog. Alternative 3: Schilthorn A much-loved day trip from Interlaken is a mountain peak that's enjoyed international popularity since 1969. Back then, it played a role in the 007 movie “On Her Majesty’s Secret Services” and up until today, James Bond is an important asset to the Schilthorn marketing strategy. They even established a 007 walk of fame with the featured actors and crew members from way back when... The mountain panorama at Piz Gloria is genuinely impressive and you can admire Eiger, Mönch and Jungfrau in their full glory. Along with countless other Alpine peaks. Thrill Walk at the middle station Birg With 2.970 metres (9.740 feet) above sea level, Schilthorn is a little lower than Jungfraujoch and Gornergrat but don’t worry, walking around should still leave you out of breath and give you that high alpine feeling. Swiss Travel Pass and Interrail / Eurail pass holders are entitled to discounts. And if you're up for adding some more thrill to the experience, you can always opt for a paragliding flight with my colleague Denis from the starting place above Mürren down to Stechelberg. I had the chance to fly with him in this area in February 2024 and absolutely loved it! Alternative 4: Glacier Express or Bernina Express Another option to see glaciers, mountains and the best that Swiss nature has to offer without visiting Jungfraujoch is on board a scenic train . I’ve written an extensive post about the Glacier Express and the Bernina Express here . They both a ccept all travel passes and might be a great way for you to see the best of Switzerland without heading to the Top of Europe. If you go for this option, please do yourself a favour and buy a travel pass. Riding the full Glacier Express from St. Moritz to Zermatt costs 152 CHF, which doesn’t include the compulsory reservation fee yet. With your Interrail / Eurail or Swiss Travel Pass , all you need to pay for is the reservation fee. Same goes for these three SBB day passes , by the way. 11. Here are some insider tips I can share Before we close this up, I have a few insights I’d like to share with you after my trip to Jungfraujoch in November 2020. Some might seem random, but I hope you’ll still find them helpful. To avoid long queues and paying for food at the restaurant at Jungfraujoch, grab your picnic in Interlaken. However, if you bring along anything liquid – like for instance yoghurt or cottage cheese – make sure you put it in a sealed plastic bag . With your destination being at almost 3.500 metres above sea level, the risk of the lid bursting open and leaving quite a mess in your bag is real. My carrot salad reminded me why I should have paid more attention in physics class when our teacher explained the correlation between pressure and altitude. Bottom line, seal it or leave it. Or clean it… Wear good shoes and warm clothes . It’s cold up there. Especially inside the ice palace. Also during summer. Even more so in winter. If you’re as pale as me, I suggest wearing sunscreen as the sun can be quite aggressive at this altitude. Even more so when it’s reflected in the snow. Jungfraujoch is very popular and can get crowded. To avoid having to skip several trains to find a free spot, make a reservation beforehand. If you book your ticket through Swiss Activities , you'll automatically get that reservation because you'll be booking your specific time slot. You’d expect the souvenir shops in a place like Jungfraujoch to be a rip-off. But they’re actually not. In case you’re looking for an out-of-the-ordinary place to buy yourself a Swiss Army knife or some Lindt chocolate, you won’t pay more at Jungfraujoch than you would in other places across Switzerland. The trains to Grindelwald and Lauterbrunnen depart Interlaken as one train and split up in Zweilütschinen . Please make sure you get on the right half when boarding in Interlaken. If you happen to get on the wrong part, you can always hop off in Zweilütschinen and hurry to the correct section. 12. Is a trip to Jungfraujoch worth it? Having done my share of travelling, I’ve come across countless places that cost me an arm and a leg. Some of them, like the Galapagos for instance, were worth every penny. While others weren’t so much. I know the dilemma of weighing up when to splurge and when to do your wallet a favour. But in the case of Jungfraujoch, I can confidently say that I’d be very surprised if it made your regret-list. In other words. Yes. It is worth it. Even if mountains, glaciers and snow aren’t new to you. There’s just something about this place that’s unlike anything else. I hope you’ll feel the same way. The Top of Europe certainly lives up to its name. Oh, and in case you were wondering what ever happened to that genius / lunatic with the idea to build the Jungfraubahn, he never lived to see the outcome of his flash of inspiration. He died of pneumonia only one year after they started blasting their way through the mountains. Life really does hand you lemons sometimes. Disclosure: Some of the links in this post may be affiliate links, which means I may earn a small commission if you make a purchase — at no extra cost to you. Find out what this means here .