If you've decided that the Swiss Travel Pass is for you and you've bought it (congratulations, by the way!), this post is for you. Because it answers two questions that you probably have at this stage. How do you activate your Swiss Travel Pass? And how do you use it? Without any further ado, let's dive right in... Do you need to activate your Swiss Travel Pass? I often get asked the question if you need to activate your Swiss Travel Pass once you have it or if you're good to go right away. The answer is simple. It depends... Don't we love when people say that? Sounds like another way to complicate things. But don't worry. It's super easy. If you have a "normal" Swiss Travel Pass, meaning one that is valid for a certain amount of consecutive days, you can start using it right away without having to activate it first . It's valid from the date you picked when you decided to buy your Swiss Travel Pass . However, if you opted for the Swiss Travel Pass Flex , there are a few steps you need to take. This is because your pass is valid for a flexible amount of days within one month that you haven't selected yet. Here's what you need to do to make sure your trip runs smoothly and your pass is ready to use. After buying your pass, you'll receive a booking confirmation e-mail including a PDF. In that file, you'll find all the information you need about how to proceed. Open the activateyourpass page. Enter your reference number, first name, last name and date of birth. The next page will let you pick the days on which you plan to travel. There's no need to select them all at once, by the way. You can always come back later if you're not sure at this point. (Please note that your Swiss Travel Pass Flex is only valid on the days that you activate in this process. You get no discounts on the other days.) For each travel day you activate, the system will generate a separate ticket. You can either view it online, download it as a PDF or add it to your wallet by clicking on one of the red buttons. In case your travel plans change and you want to swap travel dates, there's no need to panic. You can change your mind up until 23:59 of the day before the activated travel day. Please note that same-day deactivations aren't possible. And that's it. You're good to go. How do you use your Swiss Travel Pass? Now that you have your all-inclusive, worry-free, knock-yourself-out ticket all set up, there's nothing holding you back. You can use your Swiss Travel Pass throughout the whole public transport system of Switzerland. This includes all the lines in the so-called " GA Travelcard area of validity ". To sum up again what exactly you get with your Swiss Travel Pass, here's a quick recap: Unlimited travel by train, bus, tram and boat in Switzerland Unlimited travel on scenic trains like the Glacier Express and Golden Pass Line (excluding reservations fees) Unlimited use of public transport in more than 90 towns & cities Free admission to more than 500 museums Free rides on these mountain railways: Rigi, Stanserhorn and Stoos (and up to 50% discount on most other mountain trips like Jungfraujoch or Pilatus) Up to 30% discount on SBB RailAway offers All you need to do is have your Swiss Travel Pass handy for inspection and always show it in combination with your document of identification (passport or ID). And that's it. Simple as that. Enjoy your trip and don't forget to let me know in the comments below how your experience with your Swiss Travel Pass was.