If you’re planning a trip to Switzerland, you’ve probably stumbled across the Swiss Travel Pass once or twice. If not, don’t worry. There will be an introduction later on. But first things first... One question that will inevitably pose itself to you as you try to figure out your transport options in Switzerland, is: Should I buy this thing or not? (Btw: If you can't be bothered to keep reading and just want me to calculate your cheapest option for you right now, click here .) As with every important question in life, it’s not as simple as Yes or No. And this one is no different. The fast and easy answer will have to be: It depends. Wonderful, now what? That’s exactly what I’m trying to help you with in this post. I’ll share my honest opinion with you and also help you come to a decision. Now, in case you’re wondering what exactly the Swiss Travel Pass is, let’s take a closer look. What is the Swiss Travel Pass? The Swiss Travel Pass is an all-in-one, worry-free ticket that gives you access to (almost) every means of public transport in Switzerland. Which, as you will know after reading my public transport guide , is saying something. You can use all the trains, buses and boats across the country with this pass. Just take a look at this map to get an idea of all the places you can visit with this ticket. This also includes local transportation in cities, by the way. So trams, local buses, funiculars and so on. Get 50% off the Schilthorn cable car with your Swiss Travel Pass The Swiss Travel Pass gives you full access to all public transport in Switzerland. In addition to that, you also get free admission to over 500 Swiss museums , free rides to the mountain tops of Rigi, Stanserhorn and Stoos and up to 50% off most other mountain railway tickets. (Yes, this includes Jungfraujoch and Schilthorn as well.) Not to mention the luxury of not having to worry about tickets while jumping on any train, bus or boat. The Swiss Travel Pass comes in a few different versions. You can buy it for 3, 4, 6, 8 or 15 consecutive or flexible days. You have up to one month to use the flexible travel days. And if you’re under 26 years old, you’ll get a 30% discount. Now, let’s talk about money. Because all these special treats come at a price. How much does the Swiss Travel Pass cost? As you can imagine, such a wonderful, all-inclusive ticket isn’t cheap. But if you consider all that it unlocks for you and how much flexibility it gives you, it’s not so bad. The prices for the Swiss Travel Pass (STP) as of 2024 are as follows: If you’re interested in buying a Swiss Travel Pass, you can do so in just a few clicks through this link . Now that you know what this pass is and how much it costs, let’s get to the real question we're trying to answer here. Should you buy a Swiss Travel Pass? I personally love travel passes. Wherever I go, I try to get my hands on one because they make my life so much easier. Here’s what I love about a good travel pass: They give you the ultimate flexibility to travel as you wish You never have to worry about buying the right ticket They make it super easy to plan your transport budget They usually include some extra discounts on other attractions Taking that little side trip or catching that extra train becomes a no-brainer because it generates no extra cost Making the most of your travel pass almost becomes a challenge and you come up with the craziest ideas to make it worth its while (How about breakfast in Basel, lunch in Bellinzona and dinner in Geneva?) Basel in the morning... ... Bellinzona in the afternoon. No problem with a Swiss Travel Pass in your pocket. As you might have noticed, I’m an advocate for travel passes. But only if they fit into my plans. Which is very important to me as a budget-traveller. Just buying a travel pass out of laziness or fear of having to buy my own ticket is never an option for me. And it shouldn’t be for you either if you’re trying to watch your budget. So what I like to do, and what I recommend you do as well, is the following: Create a rough outline of my itinerary Look at my other ticket options apart from the travel pass (which, in case of Switzerland you can do in my public transport guide ) Find the prices for the trips I know I’ll want to take to get an idea of how much a single journey costs Whack it all into a spreadsheet and let Excel help me decide if buying the travel pass pays off or not If this all sounds too complicated for you and you can't be bothered to mess around with a spreadsheet, I can help you out. My personal favourite things about the Swiss Travel Pass To wrap this up, let me share with you some of my favourite parts about the Swiss Travel Pass: It lets you explore every corner of Switzerland by using one of the densest networks of public transport in the world. You’ll see that there’s absolutely no need for a car here and that you’ll still be able to see it all. All the scenic train rides in Switzerland are included. In some cases, you’ll need to add a seat reservation, though. But other than that, you’re good to go. I love how the Swiss Travel Pass includes over 500 museums. My top picks are the Maestrani Chocolarium near St. Gallen, Chillon Castle by Lake Geneva, the Gruyère cheese factory, Maison Cailler in Broc and the Ballenberg Open-Air Museum near Brienz. With Switzerland being the „water castle of Europe“, it comes with quite a few lakes . And therefore the possibility to jump on a boat to explore the area. My favourites are Lake Thun and Lake Brienz. But the Swiss Travel Pass is valid with almost all other boat companies running across our lakes as well. The boats on Lake Thun are included in your Swiss Travel Pass. Chateau de Chillon by Lake Geneva near Montreux is one of my favourites. I hope this post has helped you in the process of deciding whether or not you should buy a Swiss Travel Pass. Happy planning and good luck making your decision. PS: If you need help with your itinerary , I might have something for you 😊 Disclosure: Some of the links in this post may be affiliate links, which means I may earn a small commission if you make a purchase — at no extra cost to you. Find out what this means here .