As I'm writing this post, I ask myself: How many articles about the Swiss Travel Pass can one write before it gets boring? Or overkill? Or just sad? I don't really have the answer to this question. But since I only have two articles where I talk about this beauty so far, (here in my Swiss Public Transport Guide and here in my post about whether or not you should buy a Swiss Travel Pass ) I figured there's plenty of room for one more. Especially since this one doesn't exactly talk about the Swiss Travel Pass itself, but about its alternatives instead. As a budget traveller myself, I'm aware that, despite all its wonderful features and upsides, the Swiss Travel Pass is a little pricey and certainly not for everyone. If you've read my article where I talk about whether or not you should get this thing and have come to the conclusion that it's just not for you, maybe the following alternatives might suit you more. So let's dive right into your potential substitutes. Zurich train station Visiting Switzerland by train is super convenient. 1. Swiss Half Fare Card + pay as you go More than a third of the Swiss population owns a so-called Half Fare Card. It's valid for a full year and entitles its owner to a whopping 50% discount on every public transport ticket. Which is pretty cool. Definitely too cool to only make it available to the Swiss. Luckily, they created the Swiss Half Fare Card for tourists. It's valid for 30 days and might just be what you need. For 120 CHF, you can use it on all means of public transport on this map throughout Switzerland. As you can see, this includes trains, buses, boats, trams and even cable cars. The Swiss Half Fare Card pays off quite quickly. Especially if you're planning on heading up to Jungfraujoch or any other mountain with a pricey mountain railway. With the Swiss Half Fare Card, you already save more than 90 CHF on your Jungfraujoch ticket. My advice is to do the following if you decide to opt for the Swiss Half Fare Card: Download the SBB App on your iPhone or your Android phone Buy regular tickets as you go. You can do so though the app, on a ticket machine or online though the SBB website. Or, even more budget friendly, try and buy Supersaver Tickets . Find out more about these tickets in chapter 4.4 of my Public Transport Guide ) 2. Saver Day Pass This one works with or without the Swiss Half Fare Card. And it's definitely worth looking into. Especially if you're planning ahead and already know when you'll be travelling. The Saver Day Pass entitles you to unlimited travel across Switzerland, like the Swiss Travel Pass does. (This also includes the five most popular scenic trains in Switzerland , by the way.) Except that it's a lot cheaper if you book it early enough. Its prices are dynamic. So the pass becomes more expensive the more spontaneously you buy it. As you can see, it pays off to be quick here. The lowest possible price for a Saver Day Pass in combination with a Swiss Half Fare Card is 29 CHF for a 2nd class ticket and 52 CHF if you don't have a Swiss Half Fare Card. Once the cheapest tickets are sold out for a specific date, the next lowest price becomes available. And so on. You can buy the Saver Day Pass six months ahead of time. You give up some flexibility by getting it as it's only valid on a specific date. But it's absolutely worth it and I never plan a trip with friends from overseas without checking for a good deal on this pass first. Things to be aware of if you opt for the Saver Day Pass: This ticket is non-refundable, non-transferrable and can only be used on the day you bought it for. Not all mountain railways accept this ticket. If you plan on using the Saver Day Pass, getting a Swiss Half Fare Card as well might be a good idea. Two exceptions are Rigi and Stanserhorn. Here, you can use the Saver Day Pass and travel for free. Normally, buying a Swiss Half Fare Card in combination with Saver Day Passes only makes sense if you buy at least five Saver Day Passes. Buying Saver Day Passes instead of a Swiss Travel Pass is only cheaper if you get them at 70 CHF or lower (without Swiss Half Fare Card) or 40 CHF or less (with a Swiss Half Fare Card). If you only find them at higher prices, just buy a Swiss Travel Pass instead. 3. Friends Day Pass Oh to be young again. And travel through Switzerland for only 20 CHF a day! This is possible for everyone that hasn't reached their 25th birthday yet. The Friends Day Pass is valid for up to four (young) people travelling together. And it only costs 80 CHF in 2nd class and 120 CHF in 1st class. It's the absolute best value any backpacker can ever get in Switzerland for their money. Forget about the Swiss Travel Pass and just get a Friends Day Pass for each day you catch a train, bus, tram or boat. All you need to do is grab the ticket and off you go. Enough said. It's the best thing the SBB has ever invented in my opintion. 4. Supersaver Ticket This one doesn't necessarily make your life easier. But it is technically an option. The Supersaver Ticket, like the Saver Day Pass, comes with dynamic prices. The earlier you buy it, the cheaper it is. So in case you already know exactly when you'll be catching wich train, checking for Supersaver Tickets can pay off. They're available six months in advance and you can save up to 70% if you're lucky. The biggest downsides are that Supersaver Tickets are non-refundable and tied to a specific train journey. But if you don't mind that, then looking into this ticket is a good idea. I've found some serious bargains that have saved me big time in the past. Things to be aware of if you opt for the Supersaver Ticket: You can only use the Supersaver Ticket on the exact train you bought it for. If the train gets cancelled or you miss it without it being your fault, tell a staff member as soon as possible and they'll give you a confirmation so you can catch the next available train. The easiest way to buy a Supersaver Ticket is through the SBB App. Sometimes tickets in 1st class are only slightly more expensive or even cheaper than tickets in 2nd class. So make sure you always check both options. If you spend more than 240 CHF on train tickets, buying a Swiss Half Fare Card makes sense. Boats are a big part of the Swiss public transport system. Boat on Lake Brienz 5. Rent a car Truth be told, you can travel through Switzerland without ever setting foot in a car. But in some cases, it might be cheaper than travelling by public transport. Especially if you're travelling with a group. Also, having your own set of wheels gives you lots of extra flexibility that you might enjoy. Even more so if you're used to driving in your home. I've written a detailed article about renting a car in Switzerland . I recommend using DiscoverCars to easily compare rental options in Switzerland. It searches through major providers and local companies to find the best deals. Prices include all mandatory fees upfront, so you won’t face hidden costs. Most bookings come with free cancellation, offering extra flexibility. Customer support is available in multiple languages, which is helpful for international travelers. Whether you need a small city car or a spacious vehicle for a group, DiscoverCars makes renting in Switzerland simple and hassle-free. Rent a car and drive along Lake Thun. Or cruise up to windy Furkapass And this concludes my third, and most probably last, article on the subject of the Swiss Travel Pass. I hope I was able to give you some good alternatives for your trip to Switzerland. Happy planning! And don't let yourself get overwhelmed by all the options.🙂 Disclosure: Some of the links in this post may be affiliate links, which means I may earn a small commission if you make a purchase — at no extra cost to you. Find out what this means here .