Most Swiss cities are built near water. Zurich , Bern, Lucerne, Lausanne, Geneva, Locarno, Zug , Basel , Solothurn … You name it. This is why people often hold the fact that St. Gallen doesn’t have access to a river or a lake against the city. But everyone who makes this claim clearly hasn’t been to Drei Weieren yet. This idyllic spot right above the city is St. Gallen’s secret weapon in terms of water access and great views. Granted. It's not Lake Constance or the River Rhine. But it certainly packs its charm. Drei Weieren, which literally translates to t hree ponds , is a recreational area with five artificial ponds. And yes, we actually do know how to count. Originally, when Drei Weieren were created, they consisted of only three ponds. These served as water reserves to help in case of a city fire and to secure the textile industry’s water supply. The additional two ponds weren’t established until later, when the name was already set. Out of these five ponds, only two are suitable for swimming. The Mannenweier (men’s pond) in the west is the largest one and free to use. It comes with lockers, changing rooms, cold open-air showers, toilets, diving platforms and benches to leave your towel while you’re out splashing around. On a sunny day, the lawn next to the Mannenweiher attracts hordes of people to hang out with their friends, play cards, study for their next exam, have some ice cream or just work on their tan. The second place where swimming is allowed is the Frauenweier (women’s pond). It lies two ponds further down from the Mannenweier – right behind the bistro and the Buebenweier (boy’s pond). It costs 5.50 CHF to get in and the premises provide extra infrastructure like hot showers and a separate area for women only. Even if you’re not planning on going for a swim, include the Drei Weieren in your schedule all the same. The view over the city, down to Lake Constance and into Germany never disappoints. Now, how do you get up there? You have several options here. Either walk from the city centre or catch bus No. 8 going to St. Georgen and get off at the bus stop called Mühlegg. Alternatively, hop on the free shuttle bus going to Dreilinden . This seasonal bus runs every half hour during summer if the weather is good and says Bäderbus in the front. There is a third option to overcome the altitude between St. Gallen and St. Georgen. Which brings us to…