Guys, I'm in damn Switzerland. Welcome to the most expensive country in the world. Definitely a pinch me moment for both Jan and I. This is the picture you see everywhere on social media. I feel like I'm in a painting. Like I've been transported into a painting. Pinch me right now. I'm dreaming. This is all we can afford. Now that's a souvenir right there. There's nowhere else like Switzerland. Yeah, 100%. Switzerland has some of the greenest grass I've ever seen. [Music] So, we are entering Switzerland now. The border is right here behind me. To be honest, I'm not really sure what they need from us. We do have Canadian passport, so we don't need a visa. Let's go. [Music] So, we just passed through the border. They didn't even ask for anything. We just passed through and we're good to go. So, on this trip, we're actually going to be exploring the Valley of La Brennan and the Valley of Grindlewald in Switzerland. So stay tuned. It's going to be a fun one, guys. All right, so we still have 3 hours till we get to our Airbnb in La Brennan. So we're going to gas up right now. First time gasing in Switzerland. Check this off the bucket [Music] list. All right, let's go check out what they have in their gas station. Wa! Look at this Switzerland. That is so sick, babe. Look. Oh, there's Ann. Look at this keychain. Bathroom is so nice in here. It's also expensive, €1 to enter the bathroom. But wow, we're officially in Switzerland, guys. A nail cutter cuz you always need one. Oh, look at the magnets, babe. Dude, I can't believe I'm here. Look at their chocolate, too. Swiss Dreams, dude. I'm so intrigued cuz it's Anna's first time here. I think they're known for chocolate, so we definitely have to bring some home. Yeah, definitely. [Music] [Music] [Applause] [Music] Hello. All right, so we just stopped for a washroom break. Look at this, guys. We're already surrounded by mountains. Everything's so luscious. There's like cows everywhere. The valleys here are just insane. We're still 1 hour away from our accommodation, but we're enjoying every minute of this drive, let me tell you. It's just one of those moments that you just feel so grateful for, you know. So, we're 20 minutes away from Lenon, but we're passing by the town of Inter. And it looks like a painting. Look at this. It's so luscious, so green. Check this out. [Music] So, we're here now in La Brennan about to check in. We actually stopped by Dunkin Donuts cuz we were craving coffee and donuts. So, I bought two donuts and I got an an ice cream macchiato and I've paid 26 Canadian dollars. That's insane. I didn't check. So, I was like, "Yeah, can I just get two donuts and a coffee?" Totally forgot I'm in uh Switzerland. You know what I'm saying? So, I just finished my $9 donut. Welcome to the most expensive country in the world. My parents also went to the grocery stores to buy some groceries and snacks for the Airbnb. If that donut was $9, I wonder how much they'll spend in there. [Applause] [Music] [Applause] [Music] [Applause] [Music] made it here at our Airbnb. We're actually staying in the heart of La Brennan Valley. And look what's in front of us right now. This is our Airbnb. And look what's behind me. The tallest and largest waterfall here in La Brennan, Stobach Falls. Just right there. Insane. [Music] Wow, look at that. We are officially in our Airbnb and it's definitely one of the most beautiful Airbnbs I've ever stayed in. Look at this view. [Music] So, since we got here quite late, it's already like 7:00 p.m., we're actually just going to call it a night and explore LO Brennan tomorrow. Good night. We'll see you guys in the morning. Good morning. First full day here in beautiful Ler Brennan Valley, the valley of the waterfalls. Literally, everywhere you look, there's a waterfall. So, today we're actually just going to walk around lots of Brennan uh and enjoy this valley. And later on, we're going to go on a gondola to the village of Mirin. But first, we'll start it off here, walk around and experience our first full day here in Switzerland. [Music] This behind me right here is the famous low white church and right beside it is the tallest waterfall here in La Brennan. one of the tallest waterfall in Europe which stands 300 m tall and it is just so stunning cuz this is the picture you see everywhere on social media and to be standing here right now it's pretty crazy. So we're walking around the valley and everywhere you turn is just so picturesque. I can't even believe I'm here. This is definitely a pinch me moment for both Jan and I. I feel like I'm in a painting. Like I've been transported into a painting. As you guys know by now, Jan and I always start our mornings off with coffee. I can't function right now. I need coffee. Jan had coffee at the Airbnb cuz it's free. A cappuccino is 7.5. I'm guessing that's for the large. 12 Canadian. So that's a no. All right, guys. So, we're currently in the supermarket. We found some coffee here. This is all we can afford. It's definitely a little cheaper in the supermarket. We just need some caffeine. Their large coffee is 370 Swiss Franks. Still pricey, but we need our coffee. [Music] So, we're here now beside the Stoach Waterfall. Wow, look at that. It's so high up. So, in the summertime, you can actually walk at the bottom of it, but since it's not summer yet, it's unfortunately closed to tourists. We can get pretty near, though. We're only like a few hundred meters away from it. [Music] So, we are on the way to Statelberg Gondola station. Now, we're actually going to take a gondola up to the village of Murin and Gimmel Wall. And luckily, our Airbnb is only a 5-minute drive to the gondola station. So, [Music] [Music] All right, we're here now. There's actually another big waterfall here as well. Look at that. It's gorgeous. just waterfalls everywhere. But yeah, like I said earlier, we're going to hit up the village of Mirren and Gimmel. And I believe Murin is higher and Gimmel is in the middle. So if you're taking the gondola here at Stetchelberg, you can actually stop at Gimmel first and then take another gondola all the way up to Muran. All right, so we're here at Stetchelberg and we're going to go up to Gimmaald and then to Murin right here. So just these two and then we're just going to go back down. So it's 944 on debit. So we got our roundtrip ticket to Muran. Cost 23 Swiss Franks [Music] each. All right, babe. Here we go. It's a huge gondola. Damn. This gondola is like a bus. All right, guys. We're inside now. I honestly cannot wait to see the views of the valley from up there. Yeah. First time being in a gondola here in Switzerland. Yeah. And this is a huge gondola. Like this is the size of like three gondas in B. Yeah. In Canada. Yeah. In Canada. This is so crazy. It's like a bus in here. All right guys, Jan from the future here in beautiful Bali, Indonesia. Just had to drop a quick update on what's been literally elevating our content lately. We've been shooting with DJI's brand new Mavic 4 Pro. And I'm going to be real, this is hands down the most advanced drone we've ever used. Having the triple lens system with three focal lengths is a game changer in aerial cinematography. You got the 28mm wide-angle lens, Hasselblad camera, 70 mm medium telephoto lens, and 168 mm ultra zoom lens, all packed into one compact drone. The newly designed collapsible remote with a rotatable screen makes it incredibly easy to switch between landscape and vertical. Perfect for fast, high impact social content. We've also been enjoying the all new Infinity gimbal with its 360 degree rotation and 70° tilt, opening up endless possibilities for creative multi-angle footage. And yes, 51 minutes of flight time means we're no longer rushing back before the battery dies. If you're looking to elevate your aerial visuals, the Mavic 4 Pro is definitely worth considering. Massive thanks to DJI for sponsoring this segment. Now, let's get back to the vlog. Let's go. [Music] First stop is the village of Gimmel. But there's only like six of us in the gondola. But oh my gosh, the views insane. [Music] This has got to be the most scenic place I've ever seen. They have the greenest grass I've ever seen. The cows here are eating good. [Music] How was it? Oh, it's good. It's good, but a little bit scary. Bye. Thank you. We're finally here in the village of Gimmel. Yeah, just a quick gondola ride, but it was honestly the most scenic gondola ride I've ever been on. So, if you didn't know already, Gimmel is actually known for their honesty stores. So, there's no staff up here. Honesty stores in the mountains. Yeah. So, if you're not honest, you can't come here. So, make sure you bring cash if you want to buy something. You don't have to buy anything. You can just come up here for the views. But they are known for their honesty stores. Yeah. So, let's go see what they [Music] have. So, we are entering our first honesty store. Let's go check it out. Let's see what they have. What if you're dishonest? So, they have some magnets. But it's pricey. This is 12 Swiss Franks. Wow. They even got some sweaters, some [Music] shirts. So far, this is a pretty quiet town, but there are locals living up here. Mhm. Simple living. The freshest air ever as well. And everything's just so green, and you're just surrounded by snow cap mountains. Like I said, Switzerland has some of the greenest grass I've ever seen. It's actually insane. Makes me wish I was a cow. You are a cow. Come on now. [Music] Guys, I'm in damn Switzerland. Pinch me right now. I'm dreaming. [Music] [Music] Hey, hey, hey. [Music] So, we're walking back to the gondola now. We're going to go up to the village of Mirin. Now, walking around here in Gimmel, there's actually host and hotels up here. So, if you guys want to stay up here, the views are insane. I don't know how much it'll cost, but yeah, there's hotels if you want to be one with nature. Yeah, there you go. [Music] So, we're here now in the village of Miran. This is definitely a bigger village, more lively. There's like people skiing up there, and there's more restaurants here and bars. And they also have a lot of lodges and like hotels. I think a lot of the people who come here to ski stay here. [Music] So, like John mentioned earlier, there is a lot more here in Miran, such as shops and souvenir shops. So, right here, like some postcards. Really nice, though. Like, look at that. They have like the the little vintage vibe that we like, but they are printed. I will say that though. They're beautiful. Yeah, they are beautiful. We're getting another hot drink. This time we're getting some hot chocolate cuz it is quite chilly up here since it is quite high up. It's 5,000 ft up. All right, let's go explore Moren. Look at the view. No, you're the view. That's just extra right there. That's just bonus. Someone's like picnicking down there. Look at their view, though. Bam. Now that's a [Music] date. So far, I think my favorite part of being in Switzerland is just taking it all in. Just walking around, just enjoying the view. The air is fresh, views everywhere. It does not disappoint. I mean, there's not really much to do other than see the scenery, but the scenery speaks for itself. It might be the most expensive country in the world, but in my opinion, you really have to see this once in your life. Yeah, it's honestly one of the most beautiful countries we've ever been. Yeah, 100%. Especially when I was in the gondola and then just going up, seeing the valley and the mountains are just like it made me feel so small. Yeah, the views were once again just straight out of a movie. Doesn't feel real. [Music] So, we just came down from Urine. That was the steepest gondola ride I've ever been on. It was literally just straight down. Yeah, that was the first time like I actually couldn't look down. Like, I'm not usually scared of hikes like that, but that was scary. It's literally like straight down. [Music] [Applause] [Music] Next stop is Interlacin. Another popular town here in Switzerland. Only a 15-minute drive away from La Brunan where we're currently staying. Definitely a more modern town. They even have McDonald's. They have bigger supermarkets. And they have some high-end shopping as well. There's like Gucci over there, Prada. Let's go check it out. [Music] So, we're currently looking for souvenirs and they have some cool stuff here. So, they have like this grindleald mug glass. It's like the mountain. What the heck? That's so cool. They have it in a shot glass if you're an alcoholic. Guys, look at their French magnet here. Wow. [Music] So, we found a store that customizes their toblone chocolates. It's the only the only store that does it. So, you buy your toblone and they do it for free. Like look at this. I heart Switzerland. [Music] Namaste. All right. So, we got it. Look at that. Toblerone Switzerland 2025. Now, that's a souvenir right there. I won't eat it, though, unfortunately. But he asked for the white chocolate, but you're not going to eat it. Maybe I'll eat it. I don't know. We'll see. 12 seconds later. We ended up eating it. No. So, it's lighter, you know, for the luggage. No, we don't have to bring it. You know what I'm saying? All right, guys. So, we're here now in the beautiful village of Grindlewald. Oh my gosh, it's so high up. Look at my knees. Look at my knees. My legs are shaking. Freaking gorgeous up here though. Damn. I'm like speechless right now. [Music]